Documentation
=============

GeoPandas implements two main data structures, a ``GeoSeries`` and a
``GeoDataFrame``.  These are subclasses of pandas ``Series`` and
``DataFrame``, respectively.

GeoSeries
---------

A ``GeoSeries`` contains a sequence of geometries.

The ``GeoSeries`` class implements nearly all of the attributes and
methods of Shapely objects.  When applied to a ``GeoSeries``, they
will apply elementwise to all geometries in the series.  Binary
operations can be applied between two ``GeoSeries``, in which case the
operation is carried out elementwise.  The two series will be aligned
by matching indices.  Binary operations can also be applied to a
single geometry, in which case the operation is carried out for each
element of the series with that geometry.  In either case, a
``Series`` or a ``GeoSeries`` will be returned, as appropriate.

The following Shapely methods and attributes are available on
``GeoSeries`` objects:

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.area

  Returns a ``Series`` containing the area of each geometry in the ``GeoSeries``.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.bounds

  Returns a ``DataFrame`` with columns ``minx``, ``miny``, ``maxx``,
  ``maxy`` values containing the bounds for each geometry.
  NOTE: This behavior may change in future versions.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.length

  Returns a ``Series`` containing the length of each geometry.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.geom_type

  Returns a ``Series`` of strings specifying the `Geometry Type` of
  each object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.distance(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` containing the minimum distance to the `other`
  ``GeoSeries`` (elementwise) or geometric object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.representative_point()

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of (cheaply computed) points that are
  guaranteed to be within each geometry.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.exterior

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of LinearRings representing the outer
  boundary of each polygon in the GeoSeries.  (Applies to GeoSeries
  containing only Polygons).

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.interiors

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of InteriorRingSequences representing the
  inner rings of each polygon in the GeoSeries.  (Applies to GeoSeries
  containing only Polygons).

`Unary Predicates`

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.is_empty

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` for
  empty geometries.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.is_ring

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` for
  features that are closed.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.is_simple

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` for
  geometries that do not cross themselves (meaningful only for
  `LineStrings` and `LinearRings`).

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.is_valid

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` for
  geometries that are valid.

`Binary Predicates`

.. method:: GeoSeries.almost_equals(other[, decimal=6])

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  each object is approximately equal to the `other` at all
  points to specified `decimal` place precision.  (See also :meth:`equals`)

.. method:: GeoSeries.contains(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  each object's `interior` contains the `boundary` and
  `interior` of the other object and their boundaries do not touch at all.

.. method:: GeoSeries.crosses(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  the `interior` of each object intersects the `interior` of
  the other but does not contain it, and the dimension of the intersection is
  less than the dimension of the one or the other.

.. method:: GeoSeries.disjoint(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  the `boundary` and `interior` of each object does not
  intersect at all with those of the other.

.. method:: GeoSeries.equals(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  if the set-theoretic `boundary`, `interior`, and `exterior`
  of each object coincides with those of the other.

.. method:: GeoSeries.intersects(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  if the `boundary` and `interior` of each object intersects in
  any way with those of the other.

.. method:: GeoSeries.touches(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  the objects have at least one point in common and their
  interiors do not intersect with any part of the other.

.. method:: GeoSeries.within(other)

  Returns a ``Series`` of ``dtype('bool')`` with value ``True`` if
  each object's `boundary` and `interior` intersect only
  with the `interior` of the other (not its `boundary` or `exterior`).
  (Inverse of :meth:`contains`)

`Set-theoretic Methods`

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.boundary

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of lower dimensional objects representing
  each geometries's set-theoretic `boundary`.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.centroid

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of points for each geometric centroid.

.. method:: GeoSeries.difference(other)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of the points in each geometry that
  are not in the *other* object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.intersection(other)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of the intersection of each object with the `other`
  geometric object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.symmetric_difference(other)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of the points in each object not in the `other`
  geometric object, and the points in the `other` not in this object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.union(other)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of the union of points from each object and the
  `other` geometric object.

`Constructive Methods`

.. method:: GeoSeries.buffer(distance, resolution=16)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of geometries representing all points within a given `distance`
  of each geometric object.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.convex_hull

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of geometries representing the smallest
  convex `Polygon` containing all the points in each object unless the
  number of points in the object is less than three. For two points,
  the convex hull collapses to a `LineString`; for 1, a `Point`.

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.envelope

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` of geometries representing the point or
  smallest rectangular polygon (with sides parallel to the coordinate
  axes) that contains each object.

.. method:: GeoSeries.simplify(tolerance, preserve_topology=True)

  Returns a ``GeoSeries`` containing a simplified representation of
  each object.

`Aggregating methods`

.. attribute:: GeoSeries.unary_union

  Return a geometry containing the union of all geometries in the ``GeoSeries``.

Additionally, the following methods are implemented:

.. method:: GeoSeries.from_file()

  Load a ``GeoSeries`` from a file from any format recognized by
  `fiona`_.

.. method:: GeoSeries.to_crs(crs=None, epsg=None)

  Transform all geometries in a GeoSeries to a different coordinate
  reference system.  The ``crs`` attribute on the current GeoSeries
  must be set.  Either ``crs`` in dictionary form or an EPSG code may
  be specified for output.

  This method will transform all points in all objects.  It has no
  notion or projecting entire geometries.  All segments joining points
  are assumed to be lines in the current projection, not geodesics.
  Objects crossing the dateline (or other projection boundary) will
  have undesirable behavior.

.. method:: GeoSeries.plot(colormap='Set1')

  Generate a plot of the geometries in the ``GeoSeries``.
  ``colormap`` can be any recognized by matplotlib, but discrete
  colormaps such as ``Accent``, ``Dark2``, ``Paired``, ``Pastel1``,
  ``Pastel2``, ``Set1``, ``Set2``, or ``Set3`` are recommended.

Methods of pandas ``Series`` objects are also available, although not
all are applicable to geometric objects and some may return a
``Series`` rather than a ``GeoSeries`` result.  The methods
``copy()``, ``align()``, ``isnull()`` and ``fillna()`` have been
implemented specifically for ``GeoSeries`` and are expected to work
correctly.

GeoDataFrame
------------

A ``GeoDataFrame`` is a tablular data structure that contains a column
called ``geometry`` which contains a `GeoSeries``.

Currently only the following methods are implemented for a ``GeoDataFrame``:

.. method:: GeoDataFrame.from_file()

  Load a ``GeoDataFrame`` from a file from any format recognized by
  `fiona`_.

.. method:: GeoSeries.to_crs(crs=None, epsg=None, inplace=False)

  Transform all geometries in the ``geometry`` column of a
  GeoDataFrame to a different coordinate reference system.  The
  ``crs`` attribute on the current GeoSeries must be set.  Either
  ``crs`` in dictionary form or an EPSG code may be specified for
  output.  If ``inplace=True`` the geometry column will be replaced in
  the current dataframe, otherwise a new GeoDataFrame will be returned.

  This method will transform all points in all objects.  It has no
  notion or projecting entire geometries.  All segments joining points
  are assumed to be lines in the current projection, not geodesics.
  Objects crossing the dateline (or other projection boundary) will
  have undesirable behavior.

.. method:: GeoDataFrame.plot()

  Generate a plot of the geometries in the ``GeoDataFrame``.
  Currently calls ``GeoSeries.plot()`` on the ``geometry`` column,
  though in the future this will be able to color the geometries by
  data values from another column.

All pandas ``DataFrame`` methods are also available, although they may
not operate in a meaningful way on the ``geometry`` column and may not
return a ``GeoDataFrame`` result even when it would be appropriate to
do so.

Examples
--------

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> p1 = Polygon([(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1)])
    >>> p2 = Polygon([(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1), (0, 1)])
    >>> p3 = Polygon([(2, 0), (3, 0), (3, 1), (2, 1)])
    >>> g = GeoSeries([p1, p2, p3])
    >>> g
    0    POLYGON ((0.0000000000000000 0.000000000000000...
    1    POLYGON ((0.0000000000000000 0.000000000000000...
    2    POLYGON ((2.0000000000000000 0.000000000000000...
    dtype: object

.. image:: _static/test.png

Some geographic operations return normal pandas object.  The ``area`` property of a ``GeoSeries`` will return a ``pandas.Series`` containing the area of each item in the ``GeoSeries``:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> print g.area
    0    0.5
    1    1.0
    2    1.0
    dtype: float64

Other operations return GeoPandas objects:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> g.buffer(0.5)
    Out[15]:
    0    POLYGON ((-0.3535533905932737 0.35355339059327...
    1    POLYGON ((-0.5000000000000000 0.00000000000000...
    2    POLYGON ((1.5000000000000000 0.000000000000000...
    dtype: object

.. image:: _static/test_buffer.png

GeoPandas objects also know how to plot themselves.  GeoPandas uses `descartes`_ to generate a `matplotlib`_ plot. To generate a plot of our GeoSeries, use:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> g.plot()

GeoPandas also implements alternate constructors that can read any data format recognized by `fiona`_.  To read a `file containing the boroughs of New York City`_:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> boros = GeoDataFrame.from_file('nybb.shp')
    >>> boros.set_index('BoroCode', inplace=True)
    >>> boros.sort()
    >>> boros
                   BoroName    Shape_Area     Shape_Leng  \
    BoroCode
    1             Manhattan  6.364422e+08  358532.956418
    2                 Bronx  1.186804e+09  464517.890553
    3              Brooklyn  1.959432e+09  726568.946340
    4                Queens  3.049947e+09  861038.479299
    5         Staten Island  1.623853e+09  330385.036974
    
                                                       geometry
    BoroCode
    1         (POLYGON ((981219.0557861328125000 188655.3157...
    2         (POLYGON ((1012821.8057861328125000 229228.264...
    3         (POLYGON ((1021176.4790039062500000 151374.796...
    4         (POLYGON ((1029606.0765991210937500 156073.814...
    5         (POLYGON ((970217.0223999023437500 145643.3322...

.. image:: _static/nyc.png
 
.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> boros['geometry'].convex_hull
    0    POLYGON ((915517.6877458114176989 120121.88125...
    1    POLYGON ((1000721.5317993164062500 136681.7761...
    2    POLYGON ((988872.8212280273437500 146772.03179...
    3    POLYGON ((977855.4451904296875000 188082.32238...
    4    POLYGON ((1017949.9776000976562500 225426.8845...
    dtype: object

.. image:: _static/nyc_hull.png

To demonstrate a more complex operation, we'll generate a
``GeoSeries`` containing 2000 random points:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> from shapely.geometry import Point
    >>> xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax = 900000, 1080000, 120000, 280000
    >>> xc = (xmax - xmin) * np.random.random(2000) + xmin
    >>> yc = (ymax - ymin) * np.random.random(2000) + ymin
    >>> pts = GeoSeries([Point(x, y) for x, y in zip(xc, yc)])

Now draw a circle with fixed radius around each point:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> circles = pts.buffer(2000)

We can collapse these circles into a single shapely MultiPolygon
geometry with

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> mp = circles.unary_union

To extract the part of this geometry contained in each borough, we can
just use:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> holes = boros['geometry'].intersection(mp)

.. image:: _static/holes.png
 
and to get the area outside of the holes:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> boros_with_holes = boros['geometry'].difference(mp)

.. image:: _static/boros_with_holes.png
 
Note that this can be simplified a bit, since ``geometry`` is
available as an attribute on a ``GeoDataFrame``, and the
``intersection`` and ``difference`` methods are implemented with the
"&" and "-" operators, respectively.  For example, the latter could
have been expressed simply as ``boros.geometry - mp``.

It's easy to do things like calculate the fractional area in each
borough that are in the holes:

.. sourcecode:: python

    >>> holes.area / boros.geometry.area
    BoroCode
    1           0.602015
    2           0.523457
    3           0.585901
    4           0.577020
    5           0.559507
    dtype: float64

.. _Descartes: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/descartes
.. _matplotlib: http://matplotlib.org
.. _fiona: http://toblerity.github.io/fiona
.. _file containing the boroughs of New York City: http://www.nyc.gov/html/dcp/download/bytes/nybb_13a.zip

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2


